# pedCov-Analysis-KISPI
This paper examines the changes in hospital visits concerning the pandemic in three periods: before the pandemic (March 1, 2018 - March 10, 2020), during the pandemic (March 11, 2020 - March 21, 2021), and after the pandemic (March 22, 2021 - March 1, 2022). 
The children were categorized according to age (0-4, 5-12, 13-18 years) and severity (severe: categories 1-3, mild: 4-5), considering the type of admission, whether outpatient or inpatient. The distinction between cantonal and non-cantonal emergency admissions allowed a differentiated analysis of the figures to identify regional differences and whether the COVID effect differentiates between cantonal and non-cantonal areas. The study of travel distances for hospital visits is based on two approaches (Euclidean and distance matrix). For the Euclidean distance (km), the shortest distance was calculated between the geometric centers of the postcode areas and the locations of the hospitals in Geneva, Bellinzona, and Zurich. The second approach uses the Swiss traffic zones, for which a matrix was computed that represents the shortest driving distance (km) between each traffic zone in Switzerland on the Swiss road network. The distances used in this paper are capped at 60km in each case - greater distances were treated as outliers and, therefore, not included in the analysis. To analyze changes in distances over three time periods, the distances above and below each city's median were compared to the pre-pandemic period. The median for the first period was taken, and the distribution was calculated, which means finding the proportion of distances above and below this median for all three time periods based on the median of the pre-pandemic period.
Kolmogorov-Smirnov tests were used to statistically analyze the distance variations over three periods to determine significant differences in travel distances. To further identify trends, the mean travel distance was calculated for each hospital location and period for comparison. 
A Poisson regression model was used to determine the influence of variables such as age, gender, and triage category on hospital visits. This was done for each period, hospital, and all three hospitals and periods.
